[Music]
good afternoon what padian's it is
Friday evening and I am home Aleut hey
my husband is gone for the weekend and I
am going to party
what so the number one thing you guys
wanted me to talk about was writer's
block so that was last week's video this
week's video is about getting Wattpad
fans how do I get more fans that is one
of the biggest questions that you guys
ask me all the time so I'm going to go
through some of the basic things
unfortunately there's no magic wand that
you can wave and get more fans all in
one go that would be awesome
but if there was I would be keeping that
a secret to me like my magic spell but
there isn't one so um so it's like a
mixture of different things one of the
number one things you want to have is a
good story I know that sounds really
really obvious um but what I mean good I
don't mean that you have to be the next
Stephen King what I do mean is that you
can't have a ton of spelling and grammar
errors so that people look at it and
they sort of wonder what's going on who
is this character why is there three
guys named Chad because you think it's a
sexy name don't do that if you're not
sure about grammar and spelling the
basic things like that that's cool I'm a
terrible speller I'm awful but if you
need to ratify friend or your teacher at
school or your mom if you have to pull
out big guns
so that way somebody will be able to
actually read your story okay so that's
the essential first thing you got to
have is a good story
what is the number two most important
thing it's having a pretty shiny cover
this is a pretty shiny cover the only
reason that I bought this book
okay well the only reason that I saw
this book in the first place is
the covers so pretty and it's the reason
that I picked up this book in the first
place
luckily the description on the back got
me to start reading chapter one and the
writing is amazing seriously hello if
you haven't read this book it's by Laini
Taylor Daughter of Smoke & Bone get it
so the second thing is having a pretty
shiny cover because readers are like
Magpies and we're attracted to shiny
things I prefer having a photograph on
the front of my book I found that's what
draws in people Frost I think it's very
popular because of the girl on the front
cover she's very shiny she's pretty you
know what we're shallow we're attracted
to pretty people I'm sorry it's true
people are drawn in by your cover then
they're gonna read your description she
had been innocent once a little girl
playing with feathers on the floor of a
devil's lair she wasn't innocent now so
that really hooked me in after I saw the
cover I read that and it was like holy
crap okay that sounds interesting what's
with the devil and the little girl and
what's going on here and you want to
read the book so you click on it or you
buy it if you're in a bookstore can't
have a long drawn-out description
because there's so many other other
things that people can click on shiny
distracting things so if you have this
long rambling backstory Tiffany went to
Chicago and her long-lost brother was
there but her brothers aren't really
part of the story but he was cute and
but no don't do that whatever it is that
your story's about that thing that will
hook readers in have that right in the
beginning smack people in the face with
it just smack them that's the way to get
readers drawn into your story so let's
talk about some other things that you
can do to help get more reads is tagging
your story so if you want to look at
what is popular for people to search on
Wattpad right now it's one direction
that is the most highly searched
and I I don't recommend tagging your
story with one direction unless you
actually have one direction in your
story because that's false advertising
but there are other things that are
popular if you just go look at most
highly searched things I think it's on
the top of the each category you got
kidnapped kiss adventure stabbing the
one thing you shouldn't do is go posting
on people's walls and stories and
advertising your story for starters it's
rude second of all no one is actually
going to go click on that link or go to
the trouble of searching you in the
story I have so many people posting on
my story saying stuff like well go just
research this story and then type in my
name and go through the scroll through
the things and you'll find mine at the
but no one's gonna do that okay the best
way you can do to advertise is meet
other people start talking to them about
other stuff you love Cassandra Clare's
City of Bones join that group start
talking about it and then eventually
once you make friends with people online
then you can suggest your stories to
each other also you can swap breeds
I know that voc trading is very frowned
upon and I'm not suggesting you do that
but what you can do is do critiquing for
each other say hey can you check out my
story post and comment on the first
three chapters I'll do the same for you
you can't just go there stand in your
little corner and hope to be discovered
you can't shout out into cyberspace and
say hey everybody read my story and I'm
not gonna give you anything back cuz no
one's going to do that everyone else is
standing there in their little corner
hoping people will come to them and read
their story well you have to give
something back if you want people to
give you something so you have to go
read for people and critique their
stories and make friends with people
don't just do you're not just in it for
you you're in it to share your work
you're in a to read other people's work
you're in it to make friends so just
remember that especially if you're
finding yourself frustrated with not
having any reads it took me two years to
get where I am on Wattpad now
and it did seem slow at first it is a
little bit of a snowball effect once you
get fans you get more fans huh yeah I
know that's not helpful at all for you
what I'm trying to say is it takes time
to build up a following it takes time
and you have to interact with people too
if you get a comment on your story don't
just read it and say oh that's nice
comment on their profile or click reply
and say thanks so much for reading you
have to interact with people they're not
there to be your faceless minions and do
your bidding
they're there to read and interact with
you as the author so I'm sure you
already do this already but just make
sure you apply to every comment if you
can eventually if you are getting in the
thousands it's gonna be really hard to
start replying to every single comment
but what I try to do is if someone posts
on my wall or if someone sends me a
message I try to always answer it the
Internet is about swapping invites
stories sharing what you've learned with
people basically you're not in it if
you're not in it for yourself if you're
in it to just have fun and talk to
people interact with people you'll end
up having fun instead of just sitting
there in the corner pouting that
nobody's reading your story pretend that
Wattpad is like a big house party you
can't stand in the corner and glare at
everyone thinking to yourself why aren't
they coming over to talk to me those
jerks it's because you're standing there
glaring at people so instead go out into
the room start meeting people
interacting with people starting
conversations you'll make friends that
way speaking of making friends I wanted
to introduce you guys to smushy sheep
they have lost my sheep
oh yeah he's uh he doesn't say much
that's glaring smokey she just
unfriendly I'm so sorry